README.md, before:

# R/Pharma Summit (in-person event)

## Background

In 2018 and 2019, R in Pharma was in-person at Harvard University and focused on opportunities for direct interaction with speakers and guests. These relationships and connections have grown into many exciting areas of Open Source drug development. In 2023 we partnered with Posit, hosting an in-person session at posit::conf 2023 in Chicago. We're thrilled to bring this back at posit::conf 2024.

Over the last 5 years we’ve seen an explosive growth in the use of R and other open source technologies across drug development, with an increasing focus on open source projects and pan-company collaboration. In this 1-day series of roundtables we aim to provide an open, collaborative, and inclusive environment to share learnings, understand common themes across our industry, and establish collaboration opportunities. The focus of the R/Pharma Roundtable Summit is to foster in-person discussions and conversations about key items (reproducibility, submissions etc.) as we did at Harvard.

Posit and R/Pharma are excited to announce that the R/Pharma Roundtable Summit is returning for posit::conf(2024). Last year, representatives from ~40 companies met in-person to discuss some of the most pressing topics pharma is tackling to bring data science to late stage development. We are excited to continue the conversations this year on August 11th in Seattle, WA. The in-person R/Pharma program at posit::conf(2024) will focus on the future of drug development using open source and tailoredfor program leaders and people leading Open Source initiatives. The 2023 review of the Summit (then called 'round-tables') is here: https://rinpharma.github.io/roundtables/

During the 2024 R/Pharma Summit, facilitators will foster in-person discussions and conversations about key items (reproducibility, interactivity, submissions, scalability, etc.) with industry leaders about open-source tools for next-generation submissions.The 2024 advisory board, shaping the agenda and planned actions for the event, spans >10 pharma companies, as well as CROs and academic research centers.

**You can contribute to the discussion about the final agenda via this collection of github discussions**: https://github.com/rinpharma/rinpharma-summit-2024/discussions

___

## Agenda

Time | Chair | Description
--- | --- | ---
8.50am | Phil Bowsher (Posit) | Intro to day 
9-10am | Aaron Clark (Arcus) and Doug Kelkhoff (Roche) | **Driving Consensus Through Repositories** <br> Following last year's open dialogue about shaping an industry standard repository, we're excited to share what's on the horizon. Through collaborations across the industry and the ecosystem of R repository tools, we're settling on a means of delivering consistent, reproducible quality assessments of packages.
10-11am | Natalia Andriychuk (Pfizer) and Nicole Jones (Denali) | Tackling risk in interactive data products (e.g. shiny validation) [Title TBC]
11-11.15am | - | Bio-break
11.15-12.30pm | Katie Igartua (Tempus) | REFLECTION
12.30-1.30pm | - | Lunch
1.30-4pm | James Black (Roche) | Round tables </br> Split into 2 sessions of 1hr with short break between sessions. People are welcome, but do not need to stay at a round table for the full 1 hour. 
4-4.45pm | Round table chairs | Chairs report back notes, and any planned follow up
4.45-5pm | Phil Bowsher (Posit) | Wrap up
6:30pm-9.00pm | Tempus sponsored apero | ![pinebox](https://github.com/rinpharma/rinpharma-summit-2024/assets/2760096/c4ca8802-4881-4250-b8fb-e22cedc48120)
___

## Audience

These round tables are for you if:

- You are an active contributor to the adoption of data science best practices across drug development
- You are a sponsor of data science codebases
- You are an informatics professional designing and implementing GxP conforming data science platforms 
- You are interested in cross-pharma collaboration

___

## Round table advisory board: 

Ordered alphabetically by company;

___

## Organising committee

- Phil Bowsher, Posit
- James Black, Roche
- Harvey Lieberman, Novartis
- Katie Igartua, Tempus

Commit message:

Add new agenda content from Katie on reflections

README.md, after:

# R/Pharma Summit (in-person event)

## Background

In 2018 and 2019, R in Pharma was in-person at Harvard University and focused on opportunities for direct interaction with speakers and guests. These relationships and connections have grown into many exciting areas of Open Source drug development. In 2023 we partnered with Posit, hosting an in-person session at posit::conf 2023 in Chicago. We're thrilled to bring this back at posit::conf 2024.

Over the last 5 years we’ve seen an explosive growth in the use of R and other open source technologies across drug development, with an increasing focus on open source projects and pan-company collaboration. In this 1-day series of roundtables we aim to provide an open, collaborative, and inclusive environment to share learnings, understand common themes across our industry, and establish collaboration opportunities. The focus of the R/Pharma Roundtable Summit is to foster in-person discussions and conversations about key items (reproducibility, submissions etc.) as we did at Harvard.

Posit and R/Pharma are excited to announce that the R/Pharma Roundtable Summit is returning for posit::conf(2024). Last year, representatives from ~40 companies met in-person to discuss some of the most pressing topics pharma is tackling to bring data science to late stage development. We are excited to continue the conversations this year on August 11th in Seattle, WA. The in-person R/Pharma program at posit::conf(2024) will focus on the future of drug development using open source and tailoredfor program leaders and people leading Open Source initiatives. The 2023 review of the Summit (then called 'round-tables') is here: https://rinpharma.github.io/roundtables/

During the 2024 R/Pharma Summit, facilitators will foster in-person discussions and conversations about key items (reproducibility, interactivity, submissions, scalability, etc.) with industry leaders about open-source tools for next-generation submissions.The 2024 advisory board, shaping the agenda and planned actions for the event, spans >10 pharma companies, as well as CROs and academic research centers.

**You can contribute to the discussion about the final agenda via this collection of github discussions**: https://github.com/rinpharma/rinpharma-summit-2024/discussions

___

## Agenda

Time | Chair | Description
--- | --- | ---
8.50am | Phil Bowsher (Posit) | Intro to day 
9-10am | Aaron Clark (Arcus) and Doug Kelkhoff (Roche) | **Driving Consensus Through Repositories** <br> Following last year's open dialogue about shaping an industry standard repository, we're excited to share what's on the horizon. Through collaborations across the industry and the ecosystem of R repository tools, we're settling on a means of delivering consistent, reproducible quality assessments of packages.
10-11am | Natalia Andriychuk (Pfizer) and Nicole Jones (Denali) | Tackling risk in interactive data products (e.g. shiny validation) [Title TBC]
11-11.15am | - | Bio-break
11.15-12.30pm | Katie Igartua (Tempus AI) | **One Year Later - Reflection on Progress and New Developments**  <br> A year has passed since our last in person meeting where we discussed regulatory validation workflows for R Shiny, integrating LLMS advancements and real-world into drug discovery, challenges of approval for open source workflows within industry and talent recruitment and training. This session aims to get new attendees up to speed while reflecting on conversations from last year's round tables with user stories.
12.30-1.30pm | - | Lunch
1.30-4pm | James Black (Roche) | **Round tables** </br> Split into 2 sessions of 1hr with short break between sessions. People are welcome, but do not need to stay at a round table for the full 1 hour. 
4-4.45pm | Round table chairs | Chairs report back notes, and any planned follow up
4.45-5pm | Phil Bowsher (Posit) | Wrap up
6:30pm-9.00pm | Tempus sponsored apero | ![pinebox](https://github.com/rinpharma/rinpharma-summit-2024/assets/2760096/c4ca8802-4881-4250-b8fb-e22cedc48120)
___

## Audience

These round tables are for you if:

- You are an active contributor to the adoption of data science best practices across drug development
- You are a sponsor of data science codebases
- You are an informatics professional designing and implementing GxP conforming data science platforms 
- You are interested in cross-pharma collaboration

___

## Round table advisory board: 

Ordered alphabetically by company;

___

## Organising committee

- Phil Bowsher, Posit
- James Black, Roche
- Harvey Lieberman, Novartis
- Katie Igartua, Tempus
